health workers in Gaza have begun
vaccinating more than 600,000 children
against polio Aid workers are carrying
out immunizations across the territory
the program depends on Israel and Hamas
sticking to agreed humanitarian pauses
in the fighting polio spreads rapidly in
unsanitary conditions and can cause
paralysis and
death and we can now speak to Dr Richard
piporn he represents the World Health
organization in the Palestinian
territories and joins us now from Gaza
Dr P cor the drive to vaccinate 650,000
children started yesterday how's it
going yeah I think it's a daunting task
and and greeting from Gaza I'm actually
the office in darala and this is also
the emergency Operation Center for polio
so actually it's a meeting ongoing with
all the key Partners Ministry of Health
UNICEF wh Rob many of the ngos we do
this really jointly focus is to
vaccinate 640 at least 640,000 children
and and get a 90% coverage and the
campaign is two phes uh we the campaign
started right now and four weeks we will
repeat we need to cover at least
90% uh to actually stop the outbreak and
the transmission in Gaza but also
prevent International spread so you
touched on this area specific
humanitarian polies which are absolutely
uh critical and we welcome that so we
have now divided G in three zones so you
talk about the the central the the the
central zone uh where we are now uh then
we are talking about a wi Target
population
156,000 children then the South Target
population 340,000 and then the North
150 in each Zone we have three days to
vaccinate and and when needed we'll add
another day so we started yesterday and
first day was good I would say I there
was an enormous uh yeah good vibe on on
the streets we talk about 513 teams and
we reached actually more than 80 almost
87,000 uh children which is 53 teams and
I went to many of those fix sites and
and and mobile teams many many parents
with their children Etc and actually
happy to come and so people excuse me
for interrupting but uh people um the
people of Gaza are willing to uh bring
their children to get
vaccinated definitely I mean there's
always actually an a high vaccination
Acceptance in in in Gaza and the West
Bank by the way as well and and and
before this crisis the routine
immunization program in in Gaza had
coverage as high as 90 to 95% actually
higher than than than a number of
European countries High income countries
so there's a huge acceptance and and
even today to today I went with a number
of teams mobile teams uh and we went to
this um along this Coastal Road where
you see these endless and endless
makeshifts uh shelters and camps and
everywhere we went with his mobile team
checking on children Etc almost all
those kids were vaccinated in
but again it's just the the the second
day of the campaign we still have 10
days to go and there's absolutely
critical that all the parties stick to
this SoCal humanitarian specific paes
and the families can go out that that
their children can go out and that these
513 teams 2,200 health workers and and
community outreach workers can do their
job uh very briefly please uh what's the
biggest hurdle standing in the way of
reaching your
goal I think the biggest hurdle would be
I mean well first of all I think the the
complexity of the situation and and as I
said all these pieces of this puzzle
they have to fit together the
humanitarian PES is the most critical
one I want to also add something overall
when you look so we are now a little bit
in a polio bubble first today we make
some good step forward but the overall
health situation is deeply deeply
concerning and you talk about Hospital
functionality less than half of the
hospitals are partly functional and and
less than a third of the primary health
care centers are functional we see of
course an environment of a Water
Sanitation conditions which is horrific
and it's a breeding ground for many
infectious diseases including of course
polio uh we we we seen an enormous
amount of of hepatis a jish diarrheal
diseases so the oral feal transmission
Etc also links to uh polio but maybe a
small array of home if he can do this
kind of campaign if he can do this kind
of campaign maybe much more is possible
in in Gaza of course ultimately what
everybody wants here is a ceasefire and
and and and a start of of Peace
Arrangements in a peace process Dr
Richard paper from D do
wh's West Bank and Gaza office thank you
very
much thank you